Get started 1.0 - Data Access (#1455)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/tutorials/get-started/data-access.md

# Data Access

Okay, now that we've learned how to _track_ data and models with DVC and how to
version them with Git, next question is how can we _use_ these artifacts outside
of the project? How do I download a model to deploy it? How do I download a
specific version of a model? How do I reuse datasets across different projects?

> > Especially, these questions come up very fast when you see the way DVC saves
> > files to the remote storage, e.g.
> > `s3://dvc-public/remote/get-started/fb/89904ef053f04d64eafcc3d70db673` 😱
> > instead of `model.pkl` or `data.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> These questions tend to come up when you browse the files that DVC saves
> to remote storage, e.g.
> `s3://dvc-public/remote/get-started/fb/89904ef053f04d64eafcc3d70db673` 😱
> instead of the original files, name such as `model.pkl` or `data.xml`.
```

Reviewer: Maybe link "remote storage"

> Remember those `.dvc` files `dvc add` generates? Or `dvc.yaml` and `dvc.lock`
> pipeline files? They (and their versions in Git) contain all the information
> needed to access any version of any dataset or model in the remote storage. All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember those `.dvc` files `dvc add` generates? Or the `dvc.yaml` and `dvc.lock`
pipeline files produced by `dvc run`? They (and their versions in Git) contain all the information
needed to access any version of all the datasets or models in remote storage. All
```

Reviewer: Not sure "(and their versions in Git)" is needed. A little difficult to read/get.

you need is to have access to the <abbr>DVC repository</abbr>. Practically, it

> means a URL to a Git repo that you have access to.

Reviewer: > All you need is to have access to the <abbr>DVC repository</abbr>. Practically, it means a URL to a Git repo that you have access to.

Is this true? You also need access to the remote storage. Also, "All you need" could be interpreted as condescending. Best to say something more specific like "you no longer need to keep track of access to a, b, and c... but only to the DVC repo (and remote storage if it's not public)"

Author: it's not exactly true, you are right ... I sacrificed a bit for simpliciy

Author: redid it again

## Find a file or directory

You can use `dvc list` to explore a <abbr>DVC repository</abbr> hosted on any
Git server. For example, let's see what's in the `get-started/` directory of our
[dataset-registry](https://github.com/iterative/dataset-registry) repo:

```dvc
$ dvc list https://github.com/iterative/dataset-registry get-started
.gitignore
data.xml
data.xml.dvc
```

The benefit of this command over browsing a Git hosting website is that the list
includes files and directories tracked by both Git and DVC (`data.xml` in the

> example above is a dataset file tracked by DVC, not Git).

Reviewer: > (`data.xml` in the example above is a dataset file tracked by DVC, not Git)

Needed?

Author: changed it a little bit

> ## Download

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Simple download
```
?

Author: want to keep it simple for real :)

because the connection between the projects is lost — others won't know where
the data came from or whether new versions are available.

## Import file or directory

> `dvc import` downloads any file or directory similar to `dvc get`, while also
> creates a `.dvc` file that can be saved in the project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dvc import` also downloads any file or directory, while also
creating a `.dvc` file that can be saved in the project:
```
Removed the `dvc get` part here because it's mentioned in the next paragraph (after the code block).
